README.md, before:

# menRva
## An interdisciplinary open research repository

This project focuses on development of infrastructure to preserve and disseminate translational research more easily. The portal enhances visibility and access, promotes people and the attribution of their work, and supports open and FAIR-TLC science with good data practice workflows, powerful search and indexing, and privacy standards required for translational research.
_______________

## Problem Statement

Proper collection, indexing, and preservation is vital to the discovery and dissemination of research output in scientific research. However, many research communities continue to battle the problem of “silos” at the institutional level that hinder discovery of research output. We propose to build infrastructure that can be easily deployed and managed either locally or on a cloud-based platform to collect, record, preserve, and disseminate a wide range of digital works across the translational community to enhance their visibility, promote people and their expertise, support attribution of their work, aid the discovery and accessibility by the international scientific community, and support open and FAIR-TLC science. At the same time, we will use this tool to promote good data practice workflows, incorporate standards and persistent identifiers, and account for privacy standards required for translational research. 

## Project Description

Infrastructure that can be easily deployed and managed locally to collect, record, preserve, and disseminate a wide range of digital works across the translational workforce\* is critical to enhance their visibility, promote people and their expertise, support attribution of their work, aid the discovery and accessibility by the international scientific community, and support open and FAIR-TLC science. Such an initiative requires a trusted framework for digital objects, good data practice workflows; incorporation of standards and persistent identifiers; incorporation of privacy considerations, and strategies to support implementation and integration as well as incentivize individuals participating in such an ecosystem. Here we are developing an integrated, born-interoperable repository and data catalog to empower researchers as they engage in good data practices around research data management, licensing, preservation, credit, discovery, and reuse of these digital artefacts and data at their hubs. This next-generation repository is being built in partnership with CERN on their Invenio platform. Invenio is a a safe, secure, scalable, and RESTful architecture to power the repositories of CERN and many other organizations in a mature open source community. The software will be available for local level and implementation and we are working in parallel to make a cloud instance available for broad use.

\* e.g., datasets, protocols, education or engagement materials, technical reports, supplemental materials, survey instruments

## Alignment to program objectives
TODO see [here](https://github.com/data2health/roadmap/blob/master/cd2h-foa.md)

## Want to work with us? Get involved
Please go to our [Engagement page](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/engagement.md) to learn more about our needs, good first contributions, and more! We're excited to have you join us.

## Contact Person

| **Point person (github handle)**  | **Site** | **Program Director** |
| ---| --- | --- |
| Matt Carson (@carsonicator) | Northwestern | Melissa Haendel (@mellybelly)  |
| Kristi Holmes (@kristiholmes) | Northwestern | | |

## Leads 

Project scientific leadership, should be 1-3 persons. 

Lead(s) (github handle) | Site
----------|--------------|
| Matt Carson (@carsonicator) | Northwestern
| Kristi Holmes (@kristiholmes) | Northwestern

## Team members 

[Coming soon](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/team.md)

## Repositories

* [Review](https://github.com/data2health/repository-and-index-software) of the current repository landscape
* menRva repository (currently private)

## Deliverables

* Version 1 of the repository with key first-round features, [next-generation repository (NGR)](http://ngr.coar-repositories.org/) updates (in progress and in collaboration), incorporation of metadata best practices (per CD2H), incorporation of attribution work to date, and other features
* A local NU instance
* Cloud-based instance 
* GitHub repo where software can be downloaded, features requested, etc.
* Ongoing requirements gathering, landscape analysis, and testing - with results disseminated broadly
* Collaborations with other data catalog/repository stewards to identify shared priorities, opportunities for collaboration, and strategies to enable and support interoperability, data discovery, and sustainability and support for local projects
* Engagement materials/activities (1-pager, demo video on YouTube, conference presentations, etc.)
* Roadmap for next phase of work

The relationships between the NGR behaviors and technologies ([image source data](http://ngr.coar-repositories.org/)): 

![alt text](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/NGR_Behaviors_and_Technologies.png "NGR Behaviors and Technologies")

## Milestones 
### In addition to the deliverables above...

* Feature parity with Galter Library's current repository (6 months)
* Addition of selected NGR features (6 months - 1 year)
* Advanced NGR features (1 year +)

## Evaluation

[Coming soon](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/evaluation.md)

## Education

[Coming soon](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/education.md)

## Working documents

Coming soon

## Slack room

Coming soon

Commit message:

updated link to team.md

README.md, after:

# menRva
## An interdisciplinary open research repository

This project focuses on development of infrastructure to preserve and disseminate translational research more easily. The portal enhances visibility and access, promotes people and the attribution of their work, and supports open and FAIR-TLC science with good data practice workflows, powerful search and indexing, and privacy standards required for translational research.
_______________

## Problem Statement

Proper collection, indexing, and preservation is vital to the discovery and dissemination of research output in scientific research. However, many research communities continue to battle the problem of “silos” at the institutional level that hinder discovery of research output. We propose to build infrastructure that can be easily deployed and managed either locally or on a cloud-based platform to collect, record, preserve, and disseminate a wide range of digital works across the translational community to enhance their visibility, promote people and their expertise, support attribution of their work, aid the discovery and accessibility by the international scientific community, and support open and FAIR-TLC science. At the same time, we will use this tool to promote good data practice workflows, incorporate standards and persistent identifiers, and account for privacy standards required for translational research. 

## Project Description

Infrastructure that can be easily deployed and managed locally to collect, record, preserve, and disseminate a wide range of digital works across the translational workforce\* is critical to enhance their visibility, promote people and their expertise, support attribution of their work, aid the discovery and accessibility by the international scientific community, and support open and FAIR-TLC science. Such an initiative requires a trusted framework for digital objects, good data practice workflows; incorporation of standards and persistent identifiers; incorporation of privacy considerations, and strategies to support implementation and integration as well as incentivize individuals participating in such an ecosystem. Here we are developing an integrated, born-interoperable repository and data catalog to empower researchers as they engage in good data practices around research data management, licensing, preservation, credit, discovery, and reuse of these digital artefacts and data at their hubs. This next-generation repository is being built in partnership with CERN on their Invenio platform. Invenio is a a safe, secure, scalable, and RESTful architecture to power the repositories of CERN and many other organizations in a mature open source community. The software will be available for local level and implementation and we are working in parallel to make a cloud instance available for broad use.

\* e.g., datasets, protocols, education or engagement materials, technical reports, supplemental materials, survey instruments

## Alignment to program objectives
TODO see [here](https://github.com/data2health/roadmap/blob/master/cd2h-foa.md)

## Want to work with us? Get involved
Please go to our [Engagement page](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/engagement.md) to learn more about our needs, good first contributions, and more! We're excited to have you join us.

## Contact Person

| **Point person (github handle)**  | **Site** | **Program Director** |
| ---| --- | --- |
| Matt Carson (@carsonicator) | Northwestern | Melissa Haendel (@mellybelly)  |
| Kristi Holmes (@kristiholmes) | Northwestern | | |

## Leads 

Project scientific leadership, should be 1-3 persons. 

Lead(s) (github handle) | Site
----------|--------------|
| Matt Carson (@carsonicator) | Northwestern
| Kristi Holmes (@kristiholmes) | Northwestern

## Team members 

For a list of team members see this [link](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/team.md).

## Repositories

* [Review](https://github.com/data2health/repository-and-index-software) of the current repository landscape
* menRva repository (currently private)

## Deliverables

* Version 1 of the repository with key first-round features, [next-generation repository (NGR)](http://ngr.coar-repositories.org/) updates (in progress and in collaboration), incorporation of metadata best practices (per CD2H), incorporation of attribution work to date, and other features
* A local NU instance
* Cloud-based instance 
* GitHub repo where software can be downloaded, features requested, etc.
* Ongoing requirements gathering, landscape analysis, and testing - with results disseminated broadly
* Collaborations with other data catalog/repository stewards to identify shared priorities, opportunities for collaboration, and strategies to enable and support interoperability, data discovery, and sustainability and support for local projects
* Engagement materials/activities (1-pager, demo video on YouTube, conference presentations, etc.)
* Roadmap for next phase of work

The relationships between the NGR behaviors and technologies ([image source data](http://ngr.coar-repositories.org/)): 

![alt text](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/NGR_Behaviors_and_Technologies.png "NGR Behaviors and Technologies")

## Milestones 
### In addition to the deliverables above...

* Feature parity with Galter Library's current repository (6 months)
* Addition of selected NGR features (6 months - 1 year)
* Advanced NGR features (1 year +)

## Evaluation

[Coming soon](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/evaluation.md)

## Education

[Coming soon](https://github.com/data2health/menRva/blob/master/education.md)

## Working documents

Coming soon

## Slack room

Coming soon
